# First-Year-University-Projects
These are a few projects I've worked on either solo or in a team during my first year at university.

I'm the most proud of my COMP140 work as I've essentially took everything I knew about Object Orientated Programming and tried to implement it as well as I could, I took advantage of OOP principles such as inheritance and polymorphism to produce what is in my opinion the cleanest code I've written for a video game to date(26/10/2022). I'm also proud of it because it forced me out of my comfort zone as my task wasn't only to make a video game but to also make an accompanying and original controller. I had to learn how to use fusion360 to design my controller so I could 3D print it out whilst also working on the game side and being pressured by a deadline for this module as well as another module. You can view the only video in the video folder to see the end result, it didn't turn out perfectly as I originally designed it at the beginning of the module, however, it's still a completed piece which I enjoyed making with more info on whats changed in the COMP140 readme file.

The screenshots folder contains a couple of running screenshots from every project being shared here.

All COMP projects are solo work except for COMP120 Audio where I teamed up with a friend to create audio for a horror diorama for a fake brief scenario.

All GAM projects are team based so not all of the code was written by me, the teams where different for every project and had a good random mixture of disciplines ranging from writers to artists to programmers and more. 

My contribution to GAM 110 was mainly the UI, the project was presented as a sort of game jam in which we had about 6 weeks to create a game from scratch in Unity based on a bunch of restrictions called the creativity cards. We were tasked with making an escort mission based in Cornwall so our team came up with a survival game where you just try and protect your fries from an endless and ever growing horde of seagulls, it's very loosly similar to Call Of Duty Zombies but it's top down with no wave system and the atmoshpere is a lot more casual. I created the entire main/pasue menu system (which was really cool because the pause menu slowed down the time and only partially tinted out the game so it was quite aesthetically pleasing plus it stopped the player from just pausing the game and coming back to it later which would be counted as cheating) as well as creating most of the in game HUD. Though I'm proud of my UI work in this game, the rest of the game is rough and not fully finished. This was everyone's first time working on a collaborative project like this at the time and so I made the mistake of focusing too much on only my work when my teammates where struggling. Ever since then I've focused on helping my team mates whenever I could, I proactively asked team mates if they needed help and would start pair programming if no one had a clear idea of how to fix the issue, and it definitly worked as my next game turned out a lot more polished and finished, and teammates would eventually just start coming to me for help without me needing to ask them. 

On GAM 130 I made the initial prototype from which we decide to build the game on, we were a very programmer heavy team with a mixed bag of experience in coding on the team so I often switched up my tasks every week, so sometimes I would work solo like on the mini health bars that would pop up for a few seconds after an enemy took damage and then dissapear, or I would work collaboratively like on the tower placement/pick up/selling features. This project taught me that its not only good to give help to others, but it's also good to ask for help from others as at the end of the day we're all fairly inexperienced so we can learn from each other and grow as a team.
